In some practical applications, there are often no other dimensional variables that are highly correlated with the predicted time variable, or these dimensional variables are difficult to collect. At the same time, time series data with lower correlations are prevalent, which have more important significance for the improvement of forecasting results. Therefore, a low-correlation multidimensional time series data prediction method based on attention flipping network is proposed. First, for low-correlation time series data, the correlation changes with time, and a batch sliding window is introduced to get rid of the interference caused by time changes to better capture the dimensional correlation. Secondly, in view of the problem that the traditional Gated Recurrent Unit (GRU) network discards a large number of low-correlation samples, establish a flipped GRU network to screen low-correlation multi-dimensional data for the first time, control the number of multi-dimensional data transmitted in the network, avoid dimensional variables being discarded due to low correlation, and improve the survival time of multi-dimensional data with low correlation in the model. At the same time, a dimension-based attention mechanism is used to adaptively adjust the importance of different dimension sequences in the correlation extraction process. Finally, a square long short-term memory network LSTM (Long Short-Term) is established to fit the weighted data, and to determine the influence of the correlation on the predicted parameters in more detail. The experimental comparison with the traditional neural network model shows that the determination coefficient of the proposed model can reach 0.95, which is much better than other network models.
